Click the following link to view our Interactive Dashboard: https://gabrielle-taylor-3.shinyapps.io/Group5_FinalProject/

Welcome to my groups Interactive Dashboard, where we focus increasing visibility and safety among school districts in the city of South Bend, Indiana. We hope our dashboard can be used to brief the Mayor of South Bend, Indiana regarding our saftey initiative. Using the link above, will direct you to our interactive dashboard that consist of five tabs. The first tab provides a descriptive summary of all the information provided by the other tabs. Each of the four following tabs were used as relevant metrics in our overall goal in making South Bend a safer and brighter place, especially for kids. These metrics included street lights luminosity, active and code enforcement cases, and the locations of abandon properties in relations to the location and type of school systems.

We believe that with this information, we can determine better routes for children to take if they choose to walk home from school while also proposing extra locations to install street lights for greater safety. As the mayor of a large town, the information must be clear and easily able to be shared with other members of the local government without a need for an in-depth explanation. As an effort to prepare for this situation, the team has prepared this dashboard for the purposes in accounting this, while enabling a platform that can promote feasibility in data collection, comprehension, and trasportablility among other local government members. Similarly, the tool will be easily interactable with pre-selected drop-down selections for all filters. The dashboard is also user-friendly and allows minimal technical experience to be required.

The four tabs as mentioned contains information regarding the location of schools, street lights, abandoned properties, and code enforcement cases. The school type tab interactively display the location and names of private and public south bend schools that can be filtered by zip code and or by school type. The street lights tab shows the location of every street light in south bend. Its color shows how much light (lumens) is produced in an effort to highlight the more powerfully lit streets. The abandoned properties tab shows the locations of abandoned properties that can be filtered by zip code. The code enforcement case tab highlights the area of instances of code enforcement violations. Code enforcement pertains to the prevention, detection, investigation, and enforcement of violations of statutes or ordinances regulating public health, safety, welfare, and more. Thus, understanding the location of these violations will help to highlight key target areas to focus our safety efforts.

Since each metric tab is filter base is by zip code, we believe that we can target and intergrate the installment of street lights in more problematic areas initially to assess safety more efficiently. In addition, our efforts is to provide greater visibility for students to feel safer as they travel home. We believe that his dashboard will aid in that effort and allow us to do so one zip code at a time. Thank you for your time and hope you enjoy our interactive dashboard!
